## Hash-based Collaborative filtering using Universal Sentence Encoder implemented in TensorFlow

Increasing users and items demand huge storage and computational power requirements. However, conventional collaborative filtering systems learn continuous real-valued embeddings for denoting users and items. We address this problem by learning discrete binary hash codes for representing both users and items. Binary hash codes consume significantly less space when compared to continuous (floating) embeddings. We predict the rating value by calculating the Hamming distance between the user and item hash codes, which is also very efficient (implemented using bit operations) when compared to dot product of float vectors. Previous attempts on hash-based collaborative filtering via neural networks leveraged conventional approaches such as embedding matrices and TF-IDF (Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency) vectors to learn user and item hash codes. There is little work exploring the use of text review information for generating user and item encodings in hash-based approaches. Also, there has been very little work addressing the item cold-start problem in hash-based collaborative filtering. In this paper, we propose an end-to-end deep learning-based Hybrid recommender system that utilizes review text information and USE (Universal Sentence Encoder) to learn both user and item hash codes. Our proposed content-aware model treats cold items and existing items alike, thereby addressing the item cold-start problem. Finally, we compare our proposed model with the baseline model on two real-world datasets, which shows statistically significant improvements up to 12% in NDCG (Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain) and 7% in MRR (Mean Reciprocal Rank). 
